the armi Huli is a distinguished public
policy fellow at American University of
Beirut and he's joining us live from
Boston Mr Huli always a pleasure to have
you with us on alzer I want to start
with the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinken's comments that the ceasefire is
now up to sinir this is something the US
has maintained since the War Began they
say that the ceasefire is up to Hamas
but the US allowed its Ally Israel to
assassinate the last leader of Hamas who
was leading the ceasefire efforts on
hamas's part
well according to what we've been
hearing for the last couple weeks it's
basically the Israelis who are the
obstacle to a ceasefire that the pamas
has accepted all the conditions and the
alterations that were made and the it's
the Israelis that were holding out and
kept changing the terms so it's it's not
totally clear the Americans I think just
out of tradition blame everything on the
Arab side the Palestinian side the uh
people with Iran uh but the reality I
think is is much more clear that the uh
obstacle to a ceasefire and exchange of
prisoners and hostages probably is
Benjamin Neto and we've heard the
Israeli reaction to sina's appointment
and they say this makes them even more
of a Target do you think that they will
increase their efforts to assassinate
sinoa well they've they've always
assassin ated senior leaders of
Palestinian resistance movements whether
it's the PLO or you know fet or some of
the other movements pflp or the Hamas or
Hezbollah the Lebanese uh so they yes
they probably will try to assassinate
more people but it doesn't do any good
that it's bizarre that the Israelis
don't see that when they assassinate
somebody they get somebody more radical
and this is just the what happened when
Han was assassinated sinir took over
sinars generally seem to be a little bit
more Hardline whereas um
um is U is generally seen to be a little
bit more uh not flexible but pragmatic
but the position of Hamas is not made by
one person it's made by a collective
leadership that chooses these people and
they've clearly repeatedly uh ex made
overtures towards Israel towards some
kind of long-term truce before the
October 7 attack and even since October
7 they've clearly agreed to go into uh
ceasefire negotiations so really the the
situation U is is one in which we need
to have significant pressure on
everybody uh whoever is the blame to
accept these terms get the ceasefire
done do the exchanges and move on to the
next phase which is going to be even
more complicated to govern Palestine and
to possibly lead once the Israelis leave
Gaza to lead to a a negotiation for a
permanent resolution of the Palestine
Israel conflict which is way more
complex but we have to aim for that at
some course yeah Mr codyy the ceasefire
process has been faltering at best what
impact do you think sinar's leadership
will have on that process given he's
seen as The Mastermind of the October
7th attack again we heard from our
correspondent patty khaine just before
you that it's very interesting that
Anthony blinkin um didn't denigrate Sina
in any way but what are you expecting
from the
Israelis that may or may not be
significant U Lincoln is not a major
player as far as we know but he's
representing the American view in this
right yeah he's the Secretary of State
but uh but he's come to the Middle East
times to tell everybody to cool it down
and all that's happened after each visit
is that the uh confrontations across the
Middle East spread even further field
and more people join the fight like the
anad Yemen like the popular mobilization
forces in Iraq and now you've got Iran
directly fighting with uh with Israel so
I wouldn't pay much attention to um to
the Secretary of State statement but
it's possible that they're being a
little bit more careful now I think the
real driver here is that um the American
President Biden is desperate absolutely
desperate to get the ceasefire done
before he leaves office partly for his
own legacy so that he's not forever
known as genocide Joe and partly to help
the uh C Kamala Harris who he expects to
succeed him um to give her a chance to
move on to the next stage of peacemaking
uh in the Middle East so I think it's
what Biden is trying to do that's the
most significant Mr hurri thank you as
always for your analysis Rami hurri in
Boston make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer